---
layout: default
has_children: false
---

# 1.0 SDK Changelog

The new Blade and Sorcery SDK has a lot of changes for 1.0, so not all changes may be covered.

## Additions

- Added [Shop][Shop]
- Added [PlayerLock][PlayerLock]
- Added [Shaker][Shaker]
- Added [TeleporterPad][TeleporterPad]
- Added ItemShelf
- Added [AudioLoader][AudioLoader]
- Added [HeatZone][HeatZone]
- Added [ImbueZone][ImbueZone]
- Added [ItemMagnet][ItemMagnet]
- Added [PriceTagPoint][PriceTagPoint]
- Added [SimpleBreakable][SimpleBreakable]
- Added [ItemSpawnerLimiter][ItemSpawnerLimiter]
- Added [AreaLightingGroupLiteMemoryToggle][AreaLightingGroupLiteMemoryToggle]
- Added [AreaGameObjectDisableOnHide][AreaGameObjectDisableOnHide]
- Added Repeater
- Added [BakedLodGroup][BakedLodGroup]
- Added [PlayerLightmapVolume][PlayerLightmapVolume]
- Added a Lit to Moss tool
- Added [Shadergraph Markdown](https://openupm.com/packages/com.needle.shadergraph-markdown/#modal-manualinstallation) to the project for organisation/cleaniness of the new LitMoss shader.
- Added the ability for Survival on all maps (see [Survival][Survival])
- Added a Calculate Bounds tool to Area bounds
- Added ProtoPotion prefab
- Added Face Animation Tools (Unity Live Capture, FaceAnimator and CaptureAudioSyncer)


## Major Changes
- Main shader changed from `TR/Lit` to `TR/ASshader - LitMoss` shader. You can use the Lit to Moss tool to easily convert your shaders.
- `FabricAndFoliage` shader has been changed to `ASshader - Foliage`
- As a result of this, Linear Fog MUST be enabled on maps. Exponential and Exponential Square fog is not supported.
// - LitMoss now allows multiple emissions. You can now have imbue, as well as emission maps as a separate texture on the model. //
- LitMoss now allows Moss Painting
- LitMoss now allows Detail maps
- LitMoss now no longer requires a MOES Map. 
- LitMoss now allows both MOES (Metallic, Occlusion, Emission, Smoothness) maps as well as MODS (Metallic, Occlusion, Detail, Smoothness). 
- Removed "Ocean" script. Oceans and Rivers are not supported at the moment, but the brand new system will be integrated in to the SDK soon, which will allow you to create your own ocean instead of using our own oceans.
- Changed ItemSpawner to support Loot spawning.
- Adjusted the Breakable Script, changing the breaking circumstances and depricating certain fields
- Added the ability to apply statuses to creatures on the Zone component
- ColliderGroups now support multiple imbue support for multiple collider groups. Under the section "Sub Imbue Groups", you can now have different collider groups be imbued together at the same time.
- Item Previews now must be 2D Sprites instead of Textures. This will be done automatically on generation of the texture, but will need to be assigned on old ones
- Item preview generation is now different in how it takes the picture, doing changes to the scene skybox temporarily. 
- Added ID Arrays to the Mesh Part for ID Maps on Armor
- Added tooltips to most scripts.
- Fixed the ProtoMap and its scripts so that you can finally make custom Home levels

## Minor Changes

- Reworked components of the mirror script to make it more optimised.
- Removed the "Obsolete" message on handles.
- Changed the spawn position of the Item Spawner for the changes to vanilla weapon SpawnPoint Rotations.
- Converted all buttons in the SDK from EasyButtons to TRI Inspector


[Survival]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/Guides/Levels/Survival.md %}

[Shop]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/Shop.md %}
[PlayerLock]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/PlayerLock.md %}
[Shaker]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/Shaker.md %}
[TeleporterPad]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/TeleporterPad.md %}
[AudioLoader]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/AudioLoader.md %}
[HeatZone]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Items/HeatZone.md %}
[ImbueZone]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Items/ImbueZone.md %}
[ItemMagnet]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Items/ItemMagnet.md %}
[PriceTagPoint]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Items/PriceTagPoint.md %}
[SimpleBreakable]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Items/SimpleBreakable.md %}
[ItemSpawnerLimiter]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Areas/ItemSpawnerLimiter.md %}
[AreaLightingGroupLiteMemoryToggle]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Areas/AreaLightingGroupLiteMemoryToggle.md %}
[AreaGameObjectDisableOnHide]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Areas/AreaGameObjectDisableOnHide.md %}
[BakedLodGroup]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/BakedLodGroup.md %}
[PlayerLightmapVolume]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link Components/ThunderRoad/Levels/PlayerLightmapVolume.md %}
