---
layout: default
has_children: false
parent: Guides
title: U12 to 1.0 Migration
---

# Update 12 to 1.0 Mod Migration

There are a few things that have changed in Update 1.0 that have changed ways some mods work. This is a general FAQ of the things that have changed between the versions to ensure your mods work correctly.

## My Weapon Icon is a "?" after the 1.0 update

Weapon icons have changed in the way they work. If you create a new icon, they will work perfectly normal, however if you use an icon that was made back in U12, you can either generate a new icon, or click on the image file and change the texture type to: `Sprite (2D and UI)`

## My map/item materials are now pink since the 1.0 update

1.0 switches to a new shader called "LitMoss - ASshader". TR/Lit is now obsolete, and is not exported to the game. 

To switch your material over to the new one with ease, we have created a tool. Under `ThunderRoad (SDK) > Tools > Lit to Moss`, you will find the "Lit to Moss" tool. Click on a material and it will show a convert button, of which will convert your material. Ensure that all components and textures are correct.

## My weapon imbues don't follow the texture I set to it!

The new LitMoss shader now supports multiple emission maps, so you can have both imbue and a separate emission texture applied to it. To make it so emission for imbue works, ensure that you have `Moss Metal Mode` under the shader ticked, and set the `Mode` to `1`. 

{: .note}
"Use Emission" does not need to be ticked for imbue, but will if you want to have a separate emission texture.

## My materials are black/really dark until far away!

This will happen if you have enabled "Use MossMetal Map" but have no texture in the MossMetal Map. 

This will also happen if "Use Details" is enabled with no texture.

This can also happen if you have added a texture to "Reveal Mask". It is recommended to have no texture in this field, and reveal tickbox must be disabled on export.

## My Map is completly grey

1.0 requires the map to have Linear Fog (located in the Lighting Settings > Environment) if your map utilises the LitMoss shader. You can set it so it only happens far away, but it is required for all maps. This was done for performance, which reduces the amount of shader varients when exporting. Exponential and Exponential Squared fog is not supported and will likely break as well.

## My "Fabric and Foliage" shader is now pink/InternalShaderError!

1.0 has replaced the `FabricAndFoliage` shader to the `ASshader - Foliage`.

## ID maps for armor

Armors now use ID Map Arrays rather than ID maps. While ID maps are still supported, it is highly recommended to switch to an array. 

Under the `Mesh Part` of your armor, if you have an ID map, you can click on the `Convert Id Map to Id Map Array` button to convert your ID map to an array. This grants greatly improved performance on armor collisions and reduces the size of the build. Ensure that the ID map is no longer in the `Id Map` field.

